doc/inofficial.md, before:

# Work-in-Progress: List of inofficial builds

The purpose of this list is to track down regressions introduced in newer
builds that were not there in older builds. By finding the last known-to-work
build, we have a better chance to hunt down problems. The name of the build
can be checked in the "About & Help" menu of the core.

## Version 5.2
| Name          | Date     | Commit   | Comment
|---------------|----------|----------|--------------------------------------
| WIP-V5.2-A2   | 03/16/25 | 7f96970d | Fix PRG loader problems
| WIP-V5.1-A1   | 07/09/24 | f4df717b | Fix HDMI jailbar issue #145, which was in reality a HyperRAM issue

## Version 5.1

| Name          | Date     | Commit  | Comment
|---------------|----------|---------|--------------------------------------
| WIP-V5.1-A1   | 10/20/23 | f1bf2f5 | First version that is able to generate an R3 and R4 bitstream using the refactored M2M framework
| WIP-V5.1-A2   | 10/21/23 | 5975fe7 | Dedicated test build for AmokPhaze101 for doing M2M regression tests to find refactoring-induced bugs
| WIP-V5.1-A3   | 11/02/23 | c099921 | Reconfigurable (and completely refactored) MMCM video clock, refactored reset, ASCAL reduced burst length that might fix some rare REU bugs
| WIP-V5.1-A4   | 11/29/23 | fdd6ec0 | HyperRAM stable on R3, R4, and R5, fixed .crt regression, improved HDMI's audio compatibility, fixed spinning floppy drive
| WIP-V5.1-A5   | 01/02/24 | b332107 | Bidirectional reset line for better hardware cartridge compatibility (R5 only), improved VIC-II compatibility, RTCF83
| WIP-V5.1-A6   | 01/05/24 | 9cdaa29 | Improved disk change detection for multi-disk demos and attempt to fix HDMI audio bug
| WIP-V5.1-A7   | 01/07/24 | 8c0a152 | Fixed HBlank issue and new attempt to fix HDMI audio bug
| WIP-V5.1-A8   | 01/09/24 | f0928ab | New attempt to fix HDMI audio bug
| WIP-V5.1-A9   | 01/14/24 | 94b7cd0 | New attempt to fix HDMI audio bug
| WIP-V5.1-RC1  | 01/26/24 | e168101 | Release Candidate 1
| WIP-V5.1-A10  | 01/29/24 | d3a028f | "Attack of the PETSCII Robots REU version" HyperRAM issue: Attempt to fix issue #127
| WIP-V5.1-A11  | 01/31/24 | ca70837 | "Attack of the PETSCII Robots REU version" HyperRAM issue: Confirmed fix of issue #127
| WIP-V5.1-A12  | 02/02/24 | fc997ec | "Attack of the PETSCII Robots REU version" HyperRAM issue: Failed and reverted additional attempt to fix issue #127
| WIP-V5.1-A13  | 02/03/24 | 53a06d7 | Fix macOS quirk / missing ".." in subfolders: Fixes issue #111
| WIP-V5.1-A14  | 02/04/24 | b272f0d | "Attack of the PETSCII Robots REU version" HyperRAM issue: Another attempt to fix issue #127
| WIP-V5.1-A15  | 02/17/24 | 3ade5ea | "Attack of the PETSCII Robots REU version" HyperRAM issue: Another attempt to fix issue #127
| WIP-V5.1-RC2  | 03/03/24 | 40c7b1a | Release Candidate 2
| WIP-V5.1-RC3  | 06/15/24 | 0e67535 | Release Candidate 3 for R6 boards only: Workaround attempt for HyperRAM lock-up
| WIP-V5.1-RC3A | 06/21/24 | ce927cb | Release Candidate 3A for R6 boards only: Attempt to fix the HyperRAM issue

## Version 5

| Name          | Date     | Commit  | Comment
|---------------|----------|---------|--------------------------------------
| WIP-V5-A1     | 11/30/22 | c124785 | First attempt to fix the analog VGA display challenge ("underwater" waving screen effect) discovered by Discord user Maurice#4307 and as described here: https://discord.com/channels/719326990221574164/794775503818588200/1045984002634428427
| WIP-V5-A2     | 12/02/22 | dba02bd | Same as WIP V5-A1 but built with Vivado 2022.2
| WIP-V5-A3     | 12/03/22 | f7b34fb | Rework interrupt dispatching. Fixed frequency-ratio bug in HDMI-Flicker-Free mode. Refactor audio clock. CIA: Disk parport: ignore inputs on pins configured as output. CIA: fix timer reset values (Arctic Shipwreck). VIC: change xscroll and turbo latch time.
| WIP-V5-A4     | 12/17/22 | f712c84 | Removed i_clk_hdmi_576p which generates 27.00 MHz for 576p @ 50 Hz and 5x27.00 MHz = 135.0 MHz for TMDS in the hope that this MMCM is the root cause of the "signal noise" that apparently disturbs the VGA signal. 5:4 and 4:3 HDMI modes, as well as the 60 Hz mode of 16:9 and DVI are not working any more with this experimental core. 50 Hz 720p HDMI does work.
| WIP-V5-A5     | 01/06/23 | caffa9c | First working version after the big refactoring to align the C64 core and the M2M framework
| WIP-V5-A6     | 01/07/23 | 6150985 | Identical with A5, but with a fixed regression introduced by the refactoring: In 5:4 and 4:3 modes, the file browser did not fit on the screen
| WIP-V5-A7     | 01/16/23 | cdfe960 | HDMI output works with more monitors, frame grabbers, switches, etc. than before: Asserting the +5V power signal according to 4.2.7 of the HDMI specification version 1.4b
| WIP-V5-A8     | 02/26/23 | aa1840d | Upgraded to new M2M framework containing the refactored menu system: More clearly arranged menu using submenus including preparing the menu for the new Expansion Port features. Needs a new c64mega65 menu file.
| WIP-V5-A9     | 03/11/23 | 65d8fc8 | Add work-around for errata in some HyperRAM devices: This improves the REU experience on newer batches of the MEGA65.
| WIP-V5-A10    | 03/13/23 | 9c336c2 | First version that supports hardware cartridges in the MEGA65's expansion port
| WIP-V5-A11    | 03/19/23 | f91c9c7 | Debug version: HyperRAM latency information is shown at the top of the screen: Number of fast accesses divided by number slow accesses in the last few seconds. The higher the numbers the better. The core is based on WIP-V5-A9 (commit 65d8fc8), i.e. it does not have the features of WIP-V5-A10.
| WIP-V5-A12    | 03/23/23 | dcb2196 | Dual SID support (aka Stero SID)
| WIP-V5-A13    | 03/26/23 | d0f9fa2 | Support for Ultimax cartridges
| WIP-V5-A14    | 04/07/23 | 7711653 | Support for the EasyFlash 1CR: Play games and also flash the cartridge using your MEGA65
| WIP-V5-A15    | 04/22/23 | 07f2b90 | Support for CRT file loading (simulated cartridges) and direct PRG file loading; fully dynamic HDMI flicker-free mode
| WIP-V5-A16    | 04/24/23 | 7162767 | Support for the hardware IEC port of the MEGA65: Connect disk drives, printers, SD2IEC, etc.
| WIP-V5-A17    | 04/24/23 | b0d47b2 | Add support for EasyFlash's 256 bytes of RAM or in general support for cartridge RAM that is located at $DExx and $DFxx (256 bytes each)
| WIP-V5-A18    | 04/29/23 | 4f91c48 | More stability for hardware cartridges: Delayed PHI2 signal by 63ns. PowerCartridge now works and EasyFlash 3 can be flashed (but does not run any games, yet). Simulated cartridges: Support for modern Ocean type 1B cartridges such as SoulForce (fixes https://github.com/MJoergen/C64MEGA65/issues/20)
| WIP-V5-A19    | 05/02/23 | bc3218b | Ability to switch Kernal versions: Standard, C64 Games System, Japanese Revision and JiffyDOS
| WIP-V5-A20    | 05/07/23 | dbc7143 | Fixed bug in FAT32 library that lead to an Settings file: Seek failed." error under certain circumstances. Plus other smaller bugs und features.
| WIP-V5-A21    | 05/08/23 | 18f8a0b | Eye of the Beholder is glitchfree now in CRT simulation: Heavily improved caching mechanisms for `*.crt` files
| WIP-V5-A22    | 05/10/23 | ce5c8c2 | Support for composite sync (CSYNC) via the MEGA65's VGA port
| WIP-V5-A23    | 05/10/23 | e1c696d | Dedicated test build for AmokPhaze101's 2-day intensive `*.crt` testing session that contains all the latest refactorings and bugfixes
| WIP-V5-B1     | 06/02/23 | 584972c | Feature complete and to our knowledge bug-free with the exception of the issues that are tagged with "V6 or later" on GitHub
| WIP-V5-B2     | 06/04/23 | 6b299b4 | Visualize long reset by turning the MEGA65's drive led blue
| WIP-V5-B3     | 06/06/23 | 197d9de | Add supoprt for OSM fractional scaling
| WIP-V5-B4     | 06/10/23 | ff71e71 | Release candidate for Version 5

Commit message:

V5.2X1: Disable RTC via tape port
For testing/confirming that certain demos that stopped working when we added the RTC feature work, if we remove it. See also https://github.com/MJoergen/C64MEGA65/issues/164 and https://github.com/MJoergen/C64MEGA65/issues/135

doc/inofficial.md, after:

# Work-in-Progress: List of inofficial builds

The purpose of this list is to track down regressions introduced in newer
builds that were not there in older builds. By finding the last known-to-work
build, we have a better chance to hunt down problems. The name of the build
can be checked in the "About & Help" menu of the core.

## Version 5.2Xn

Special test builds for AmokPhaze101. They are branched directly from the V5.2
release, so we might document them in a future inofficial.md for Version 5.3
or Version 6.

| Name          | Date     | Commit   | Comment
|---------------|----------|----------|--------------------------------------
| V5.2X1        | 04/27/25 |          | Disable RTC via tape port

## Version 5.2

| Name          | Date     | Commit   | Comment
|---------------|----------|----------|--------------------------------------
| WIP-V5.1-A1   | 07/09/24 | f4df717b | Fix HDMI jailbar issue #145, which was in reality a HyperRAM issue
| WIP-V5.2-A2   | 03/16/25 | 7f96970d | Fix PRG loader problems

## Version 5.1

| Name          | Date     | Commit  | Comment
|---------------|----------|---------|--------------------------------------
| WIP-V5.1-A1   | 10/20/23 | f1bf2f5 | First version that is able to generate an R3 and R4 bitstream using the refactored M2M framework
| WIP-V5.1-A2   | 10/21/23 | 5975fe7 | Dedicated test build for AmokPhaze101 for doing M2M regression tests to find refactoring-induced bugs
| WIP-V5.1-A3   | 11/02/23 | c099921 | Reconfigurable (and completely refactored) MMCM video clock, refactored reset, ASCAL reduced burst length that might fix some rare REU bugs
| WIP-V5.1-A4   | 11/29/23 | fdd6ec0 | HyperRAM stable on R3, R4, and R5, fixed .crt regression, improved HDMI's audio compatibility, fixed spinning floppy drive
| WIP-V5.1-A5   | 01/02/24 | b332107 | Bidirectional reset line for better hardware cartridge compatibility (R5 only), improved VIC-II compatibility, RTCF83
| WIP-V5.1-A6   | 01/05/24 | 9cdaa29 | Improved disk change detection for multi-disk demos and attempt to fix HDMI audio bug
| WIP-V5.1-A7   | 01/07/24 | 8c0a152 | Fixed HBlank issue and new attempt to fix HDMI audio bug
| WIP-V5.1-A8   | 01/09/24 | f0928ab | New attempt to fix HDMI audio bug
| WIP-V5.1-A9   | 01/14/24 | 94b7cd0 | New attempt to fix HDMI audio bug
| WIP-V5.1-RC1  | 01/26/24 | e168101 | Release Candidate 1
| WIP-V5.1-A10  | 01/29/24 | d3a028f | "Attack of the PETSCII Robots REU version" HyperRAM issue: Attempt to fix issue #127
| WIP-V5.1-A11  | 01/31/24 | ca70837 | "Attack of the PETSCII Robots REU version" HyperRAM issue: Confirmed fix of issue #127
| WIP-V5.1-A12  | 02/02/24 | fc997ec | "Attack of the PETSCII Robots REU version" HyperRAM issue: Failed and reverted additional attempt to fix issue #127
| WIP-V5.1-A13  | 02/03/24 | 53a06d7 | Fix macOS quirk / missing ".." in subfolders: Fixes issue #111
| WIP-V5.1-A14  | 02/04/24 | b272f0d | "Attack of the PETSCII Robots REU version" HyperRAM issue: Another attempt to fix issue #127
| WIP-V5.1-A15  | 02/17/24 | 3ade5ea | "Attack of the PETSCII Robots REU version" HyperRAM issue: Another attempt to fix issue #127
| WIP-V5.1-RC2  | 03/03/24 | 40c7b1a | Release Candidate 2
| WIP-V5.1-RC3  | 06/15/24 | 0e67535 | Release Candidate 3 for R6 boards only: Workaround attempt for HyperRAM lock-up
| WIP-V5.1-RC3A | 06/21/24 | ce927cb | Release Candidate 3A for R6 boards only: Attempt to fix the HyperRAM issue

## Version 5

| Name          | Date     | Commit  | Comment
|---------------|----------|---------|--------------------------------------
| WIP-V5-A1     | 11/30/22 | c124785 | First attempt to fix the analog VGA display challenge ("underwater" waving screen effect) discovered by Discord user Maurice#4307 and as described here: https://discord.com/channels/719326990221574164/794775503818588200/1045984002634428427
| WIP-V5-A2     | 12/02/22 | dba02bd | Same as WIP V5-A1 but built with Vivado 2022.2
| WIP-V5-A3     | 12/03/22 | f7b34fb | Rework interrupt dispatching. Fixed frequency-ratio bug in HDMI-Flicker-Free mode. Refactor audio clock. CIA: Disk parport: ignore inputs on pins configured as output. CIA: fix timer reset values (Arctic Shipwreck). VIC: change xscroll and turbo latch time.
| WIP-V5-A4     | 12/17/22 | f712c84 | Removed i_clk_hdmi_576p which generates 27.00 MHz for 576p @ 50 Hz and 5x27.00 MHz = 135.0 MHz for TMDS in the hope that this MMCM is the root cause of the "signal noise" that apparently disturbs the VGA signal. 5:4 and 4:3 HDMI modes, as well as the 60 Hz mode of 16:9 and DVI are not working any more with this experimental core. 50 Hz 720p HDMI does work.
| WIP-V5-A5     | 01/06/23 | caffa9c | First working version after the big refactoring to align the C64 core and the M2M framework
| WIP-V5-A6     | 01/07/23 | 6150985 | Identical with A5, but with a fixed regression introduced by the refactoring: In 5:4 and 4:3 modes, the file browser did not fit on the screen
| WIP-V5-A7     | 01/16/23 | cdfe960 | HDMI output works with more monitors, frame grabbers, switches, etc. than before: Asserting the +5V power signal according to 4.2.7 of the HDMI specification version 1.4b
| WIP-V5-A8     | 02/26/23 | aa1840d | Upgraded to new M2M framework containing the refactored menu system: More clearly arranged menu using submenus including preparing the menu for the new Expansion Port features. Needs a new c64mega65 menu file.
| WIP-V5-A9     | 03/11/23 | 65d8fc8 | Add work-around for errata in some HyperRAM devices: This improves the REU experience on newer batches of the MEGA65.
| WIP-V5-A10    | 03/13/23 | 9c336c2 | First version that supports hardware cartridges in the MEGA65's expansion port
| WIP-V5-A11    | 03/19/23 | f91c9c7 | Debug version: HyperRAM latency information is shown at the top of the screen: Number of fast accesses divided by number slow accesses in the last few seconds. The higher the numbers the better. The core is based on WIP-V5-A9 (commit 65d8fc8), i.e. it does not have the features of WIP-V5-A10.
| WIP-V5-A12    | 03/23/23 | dcb2196 | Dual SID support (aka Stero SID)
| WIP-V5-A13    | 03/26/23 | d0f9fa2 | Support for Ultimax cartridges
| WIP-V5-A14    | 04/07/23 | 7711653 | Support for the EasyFlash 1CR: Play games and also flash the cartridge using your MEGA65
| WIP-V5-A15    | 04/22/23 | 07f2b90 | Support for CRT file loading (simulated cartridges) and direct PRG file loading; fully dynamic HDMI flicker-free mode
| WIP-V5-A16    | 04/24/23 | 7162767 | Support for the hardware IEC port of the MEGA65: Connect disk drives, printers, SD2IEC, etc.
| WIP-V5-A17    | 04/24/23 | b0d47b2 | Add support for EasyFlash's 256 bytes of RAM or in general support for cartridge RAM that is located at $DExx and $DFxx (256 bytes each)
| WIP-V5-A18    | 04/29/23 | 4f91c48 | More stability for hardware cartridges: Delayed PHI2 signal by 63ns. PowerCartridge now works and EasyFlash 3 can be flashed (but does not run any games, yet). Simulated cartridges: Support for modern Ocean type 1B cartridges such as SoulForce (fixes https://github.com/MJoergen/C64MEGA65/issues/20)
| WIP-V5-A19    | 05/02/23 | bc3218b | Ability to switch Kernal versions: Standard, C64 Games System, Japanese Revision and JiffyDOS
| WIP-V5-A20    | 05/07/23 | dbc7143 | Fixed bug in FAT32 library that lead to an Settings file: Seek failed." error under certain circumstances. Plus other smaller bugs und features.
| WIP-V5-A21    | 05/08/23 | 18f8a0b | Eye of the Beholder is glitchfree now in CRT simulation: Heavily improved caching mechanisms for `*.crt` files
| WIP-V5-A22    | 05/10/23 | ce5c8c2 | Support for composite sync (CSYNC) via the MEGA65's VGA port
| WIP-V5-A23    | 05/10/23 | e1c696d | Dedicated test build for AmokPhaze101's 2-day intensive `*.crt` testing session that contains all the latest refactorings and bugfixes
| WIP-V5-B1     | 06/02/23 | 584972c | Feature complete and to our knowledge bug-free with the exception of the issues that are tagged with "V6 or later" on GitHub
| WIP-V5-B2     | 06/04/23 | 6b299b4 | Visualize long reset by turning the MEGA65's drive led blue
| WIP-V5-B3     | 06/06/23 | 197d9de | Add supoprt for OSM fractional scaling
| WIP-V5-B4     | 06/10/23 | ff71e71 | Release candidate for Version 5
